You may have read in the news that people who eat red meat have higher rates of certain cancers than people who don't eat red meat. The statistical term for this is that there's an association between red meat consumption and cancer but it's important to keep in mind that this does not mean that eating red meat causes cancer. This is because people who don't eat red meat are known to exercise more and drink less alcohol, and it could be the latter two issues that caused the difference in cancer rates. What we have here is called an observational study. It simply measures the outcomes of interest. In this case, it would measure the cancer rate among people who eat red meat and the cancer rate among people who do not eat red meat. Based on these measurements, one can say whether there's an association between these two factors. But as we saw before, association does not mean causation because there may be other factors. These are called confounding factors. Sometimes they have the name lurking variable. Now, what we really would like to know is whether eating red meat actually causes cancer. For that, we need an experiment. In an experiment, a treatment is actually assigned to people in one group but not in the other group. Treatment is a technical term. For example, if we have a new medication against high blood pressure, then the treatment would be to take this medication. The group that gets the treatment is called a treatment group, and the other group is called the control group. After we assign the treatment, we compare the outcomes in the two groups. We have already seen that confounders can be a problem. For that reason, the two groups should be similar. Of course, the treatment is different in the two groups. The best way to make sure that the two groups are similar is to assign the persons into the two groups at random. The way to think about the random assignment is that for each subject we toss a coin and if it comes up heads then the subject goes into the treatment group and if it comes up tails it will go in the control group. Another precaution we should take is that every subject in the control group gets a placebo. A placebo is very similar to the treatment but it doesn't do anything. In the example where we want to test a new medication against high blood pressure, the treatment might consist of a pill then the placebo would also be a pill which doesn't have any medication in it. Why would we do that? It turns out that the idea of being treated may already have an effect by itself. This is called the placebo effect. Assigning a placebo to the control group makes sure that both groups are equally affected by this placebo effect. The third precaution is that the experiment should be double-blind. That means that neither the subject nor the evaluators know which subjects are assigned to the treatment, and which are assigned to control. This is done to avoid biases. For example, if a doctor has to evaluate whether their medication helped, then the doctor might be inclined to give a positive assessment if the doctor knows that the patient has received the treatment. Let's briefly go back to the placebo effect. It sounds a bit mysterious. Indeed, the placebo effect is still not fully understood. It's somewhere on the boundary between biology and psychology, and it's probably one of the most interesting phenomena in science. If you're interested more in reading about the placebo effect, there's the accessible article, 'The weird power of the placebo effect, explained' by Brian Resnick.