Tests of significance are another mainstay of statistic analysis. We will look at the logic behind testing and then discuss some important tests for situations where one wants to assess one sample or compare two samples. We'll also discuss some common misunderstandings and pitfalls in testing. Suppose we toss a coin 10 times and we get 7 tails. Now we can start wondering whether the coin is fair. So the question becomes, is getting 7 tails sufficient evidence to conclude that the coin is biased? This is a question that's being addressed by what's called hypothesis tests. First, let's look at some terminology. The null hypothesis which is sometimes written as H sub 0, says that nothing extraordinary is going on. So that's a very generic description and we will look at some cases to see what that means. In the case of coin tossing, nothing extraordinary simply means that the coin is fair. So in other words, we can write the null hypothesis as saying that the probability of getting tails is a half. Then there's a second hypothesis called the alternative hypothesis. It says that there's a different chance process at work. So in our example, the alternative hypothesis would be that the probability of getting tails is not equal to one-half. The idea of hypothesis testing is to collect data and then to check whether the data are compatible with the null hypothesis or not. If we find that the data are not compatible with the null hypothesis, then we reject the null hypothesis. Let's look at a different example. Suppose a company develops a new drug to lower blood pressure, then it tests the drug with an experiment that involves 1,000 patients. Remember, the null hypothesis always means nothing extraordinary is going on. In this case, nothing extraordinary means that the drug has no special effect. So, our null hypothesis, in this case, becomes that there's no change in the blood pressure of the patients, whereas the alternative hypothesis is, that there's a blood pressure drop. So, if you put yourselves in the shoes of the company, you see that in this case, your goal actually is to reject the null hypothesis. So oftentimes, the logic behind testing is indirect. One assumes that nothing extraordinary is happening, and then hopes to reject this assumption.