In this module, we will discuss the basic rules of probability that we will need for our statistical methodology later on. It turns out that there are only a few rules that are essential. Even quite difficult problems in probability can be solved by applying these few rules in the right places. We will also look at some case studies that show how these simple rules can be used in surprising ways. For example, to build a spam filter for email. So, what does it mean to talk about probability? Let's look at a data example. According to the National Center for Health Statistics, in 2015, there were about 4 million babies born in the US and 48.8% of these newborns were girls. So then, if we look at a baby that's born someday in 2015 and we ask ourselves, what are the chances that this baby is a girl, we would say, "Well, the probability of a baby being a girl is 48.8%." And we write this with a capital P for probability and then, in brackets, we write down the event we're interested in. In this case, the newborn is a girl and this equals 48.8%. So this example shows how the probability of an event is defined. It's defined as the proportion of times that this event occurs in many repetitions. So, this definition requires that we look at a chance experiment that can be repeated many, many times. For example, if we toss a fair coin, we say the chances of getting heads is 50%, and the chances of getting tails is also 50%, and that's something that can actually be checked. And believe it or not, some people did check it. In World War II, the South African mathematician, John Kerrich, tossed a coin 10,000 times and found that 5,067 tosses resulted in heads. So, that's roughly 50% of the tosses. This definition of probability as a long-run interpretation of frequencies can make it difficult to interpret probabilities for a single event. For example, the journalist David Leonhardt of the New York Times, writes about this problem in his article, "What I was wrong about this year". Sometimes people use a different interpretation of probability. For example, if somebody says, "The probability that my best friend calls today is 30%," then this statement clearly cannot be interpreted as a long-run frequency because today, the particular circumstances of today happened only once. So, what this person means is there's simply a subjective feeling of 30% that this event will happen. So, this is called a subjective probability. It's not based on experiments, and different people may assign different probabilities to the same event.