In this module, we will examine how data are produced. We will look at the main concepts for drawing samples, and designing experiments. We will see when it is possible to attribute and observe the effect of treatment, such as a medical treatment, and when that's not possible. We will also look at some curious pitfalls. To explain what statistical inference is, let's look at a question you've probably heard a lot about in the news. What percentage of voters approve of the way the U.S. President is handling his job? This question has been asked by polling companies since the 1930s. If you think about it, it's actually quite difficult to answer that question because you would have to ask each voter, and there are more than 250 million people of voting age in the US. It's a daunting task to ask all of these 250 million people. So this would seem to be an impossible question to answer. However, it's actually not that difficult to estimate that percentage. What a polling company does is, it samples, say, 1,000 voters at random. Then it uses the approval percentage among those voters, as an estimate for the approval percentage of all voters. So there are a few technical terms which we are going to use in the future. The population simply means the entire group of subjects, about which we want information. In the previous example, this would be all U.S. voters. The parameter is the quantity about the population which we are interested in. In the previous example, that would be the approval percentage among all U.S. voters. The sample is the part of the population from which we collect information. That would be the 1,000 voters which were selected at random. Finally, a statistic, or an estimate is the quantity we're interested in as it was measured in the sample. So that would be the approval percentage among the sample voters only. An important point is, that even a relatively small sample of 100 or 1,000 voters will produce an estimate that is quite close to the parameter even if the population is very large like the 250 million subjects in that case. We will see later why that's the case. This example shows why statistics can be such a powerful and useful tool.