Now let's have a look how exactly we would
sample these 1,000 voters at random. A simple way would be to select
1,000 voters from your neighborhood, say your hometown, this is called
the sample of convenience and it's not a good way to sample. The reason is that the voters of your
hometown will likely be different from the population of US voters. For example, voters on the West Coast and
on the East Coast tend to be more Democratic voters, whereas voters in
the Midwest tend to vote more Republican. This will introduce what's called a bias, that means the sampling will
favor a certain outcome. There are various kinds of biases. Let's look at the three
most important ones. We already looked at selection bias. For example,
a sample of convenience makes it more likely to sample certain
subjects than others. Non-response bias means that
the people who choose to respond to the question may be different
from the non-responders. For example, parents are less likely to
answer a survey request at 6 pm because they are busy with children and dinner. Finally, you've probably seen websites
that allow you to rate businesses. The reviews you see there are not
very representative because those reviews are more likely to come
from customers who had very bad or very good experiences and therefore
feel strongly about writing a review. This is called a voluntary response bias. The best way to avoid
such biases is to use chance in some planned
way in the sampling. The most well-known way of sampling
is called a simple random sample. It means that subjects are selected
at random without replacement. So if you sample 1,000 voters
out of the yes population, that means each sample of size 1,000
is equally likely to be selected. How would one choose
a simple random sample? A popular way to do that is
using random digit dialing, that means the computer will dial
telephone numbers at random. That worked pretty when every
household had a landline. It's more complicated now with many
people using cell phones instead, and the polling companies are figuring
out ways to get around that. A more sophisticated way to sample
is stratified random sampling. There, the population is divided into
groups of similar objects called strata. For example, the yes voters would be
divided in urban voters, suburban voters, and rural voters. Then a simple random sample is chosen in
each stratum and the results are combined. This sampling can result in a more precise
estimate than with simple random sampling. However, it's more complicated to execute.