Now we can use the binomial coefficient to compute the probability of k successes in n experiments. So here's the answer. This binomial coefficient we already saw, it counts the number of ways to arrange k successes in n experiments. And then what we have is this term p to the power k, times 1 - p to the power n - k and that is simply the probability of having a particular pattern of k successes and n - k failures. And that is because if you want to have k successes, it's p to the power k, because they're independent, and each failure has probability 1 - p. And since we have n - k of them, we raise it to the power n - k. This formula is called the binomial probability. So let's do an example about binomial probabilities. Suppose you play an online game 10 times. Each time there are three possible outcomes. You can win a big prize with probability 10%, you can win a small prize with probably 20%, and you win nothing with probability 70%. The question is, what is the probability to win two small prizes? Now it would seem that this is actually not the binomial setting, because after all, we have three possible outcomes. But if you look at the question, you see you are asked to compute the probability of two small prizes. It doesn't talk at all about big prizes. So this is, after all, an example of the binomial setting where success means you win a small prize, and failure means anything else, that is, you win a big prize or you win nothing. So in the binomial setting, our probability becomes the probability of having 2 successes in 10 experiments. And for that we can use the binomial formula, we have n is 10, so there's 10 factorial. Then k is 2, so there's 2 factorial, and 10 - 2 is 8, so there's 8 factorial. Then the probability of success is 0.2. And that has to be raised to 2 because we want to have two successes. The probability of failure is 1 - 0.2, and that has to be raised to the power 8 because 8 is 10 - 2. So now we write 10 factorial as 10 times 9, times 8 factorial. Remember 8 factorial means 8 times 7 times 6, and so on, so we can write it that way. 2 factorial is simply 2 and I leave the 8 factorial there. Then we keep the 0.2 to the power 2, times 0.8 to the power 8. And now you see you can cancel the 8 factorial and you are left with 45 times 0.2 to the power 2, times 0.8 to the power 8. And if you plug this in your calculator, you'll see this is 30.2%.