So if you look at
the probability histogram for the binomial with 10 experiments and
a probability of success of 0.2, you see that that histogram
looks somewhat skewed. So there is a long right tail. But if we increase the number
of experiments to 50, then you see that the corresponding probability
histogram looks rather symmetric, and in fact it looks close
to the normal curve. This suggests that we can use normal
approximation to compute binomial probabilities, just as we used normal
approximation before to compute frequencies for data. To use normal approximation for
binomial probabilities, we need to standardize by
subtracting off n times p and then dividing by square root np(1-p). Let's look at an example
of how to do that. A few slides ago,
we were playing the online game where the probability of winning
a small prize was 0.2. Now let's say we play this game 50 times, what is the probability of
getting at most 12 small prizes? We already know that this
is the binomial setting, so we could use binomial probabilities,
but this is rather tedious work. We would have to compute the probabilities
of having 0 successes plus the probability of having 1 success, plus
the probability of having 2 successes, and so on, all the way up to 12. On the other hand, if we use normal approximation, then
this is a rather quick computation. Remember that the probability histogram
of the binomial distribution with n = 50 and p = 0.2 looks roughly like a normal curve
which is centered at around 10. Now we want to compute the probability
of at most 12 successes. So here's 12, and that means we want to
compute the shaded area to the left of 12. So we know in order to
do normal approximation, we first have to standardize. To standardize, we have to subtract off np, so we take 12,
we subtract off n times p and we divide by square root np(1- p). So we take 12 - 10 / 2.83, And that gives us 0.71. So after we standardize, we get
a standard normal curve which is centered around 0, and
the standardized value for 12 is 0.71. And so we have to find the area under the
standard normal curve to the left of 0.71. Plugging this into software, we
see that this area is roughly 76%, and that's going to be
the answer to our question. Remember that when we
talked about sampling, we know that that a poll typically selects
subjects in a simple random sample, and that means sampling
without replacement. If one is sampling without replacement,
then this is not the binomial setting. For example, the probability of success p
changes after a subject has been removed. But if the population we sample from
is much larger than the sample, then sampling with replacement is about
the same as sampling without replacement. So in that case, even if we take a simple
random sample, that is, we sample without replacement, the number of successes
will be approximately binomial, and that means we will be able
to use normal approximation.