The idea of a test statistic, such as a disease statistic, is that large values of the absolute value of z are evidence against the null hypothesis. Why is that? So remember, z is the observed minus expected over the standard error. So if the absolute value of z is large, that means there's a big discrepancy between observed and expected. So the larger the absolute value of z is, the stronger the evidence. So the last piece of hypothesis testing that's missing is we have to find a way that converts the size of z into some measure of evidence. And that measure is given by the p-value, or sometimes, it's called the observed significance level. The p-value is the probability of getting a value of the z-statistic that is as extreme or more extreme than the observed one, under the assumption that the null hypothesis is true. So that sentence might be a bit difficult to digest, and it's best to look at some examples. To see what's going on, we already know that under the null hypothesis, the z-statistic follows the standard normal curve by the central limit theorem. That is simply because we have an observed sum minus expected sum over the standard error. So this is simply standardizing a sum, and we know by the central limit theorem, that follows a normal curve. What that means is that the p-value can be computed using normal approximation. Let's look at this picture here. We have a standard normal curve, and then suppose, we have an observed z value here. And now, the p-value is the probability of getting z as extreme or more extreme than the observed one, so that would be here, or to the left of -z. So the p-value is this shaded area there. And now, you get the idea that as z gets large, that shaded area gets small. So a small shaded area is evidence against the null hypothesis. Oftentimes, the criterion for rejecting the null hypothesis is having a p-value that is smaller than 5%. Then the technical term for this is, that the result is statistically significant. Let's look at our example about coin tossing. We have an observed z-statistic of 1.27. So, that's somewhere here. Turns out, the area to the right of 1.27 is 10.2%. So the p-value is the probability of getting a normal outcome that's larger than 1.27, or smaller than -1.27. And since the normal curve is symmetric, we simply double the shaded area. So we find that the p-value in this case is twice 10.2%. So it's 20.4%. So what would be the conclusion of this case? Well, 20.4% is not smaller than 5%, so we would not reject the null hypothesis. And so, remember, the interpretation of the p-value, if the coin is fair, then there's a 20.4% chance to get such an extreme outcome. So in other words, that's actually not very surprising. And that means, there's not enough evidence to reject the null hypothesis. But keep in mind that the p-value does not give the probability that the null hypothesis is true. That's because the null hypothesis is either true or not, and there are no chances involved in that one. Rather, what the p-value does is, it gives the probability of seeing a statistic which is as extreme or even more extreme than the one you observe, under the assumption that the null hypothesis is true.