Normal approximation means to use the area under the normal curve to figure percentages. Let's look at an example. What percentage of fathers have heights between 67.4 inches and 71.9 inches? Remember that we know the mean and the standard deviation for those data and that's really all we need to know. Normal approximation consists of four steps. In the first steps, we standardize the data. That means, we take the endpoint, 67.4 inches, and we subtract of the mean, divide by standard deviation, and we get a standardized value of -0.5. Then we do the same thing with the other endpoint of 71.9 inches, and we get a z score of 2. In the second step, we mark the area on the histogram we're interested in. 67.4 is somewhere here and 71.9 is here. So, we want to know the shaded area in that histogram. Once we standardize, we get a standard normal curve and we've seen that the left endpoint gets standardized to -0.5, and the right endpoint gets standardized to 2. So now, we have to find the shaded area under the standard normal curve. At this point, we use a computer or a table to look up that area. That requires us to do a small extra step, because typically, software requires us to look at areas that come in a certain form. Typically, we can look at the area to the left of a given value. In our example, we were interested in the area between -0.5 and 2. Since software can give us only the value to the left of a number, we have to rewrite the whole thing accordingly. So, what we are going to do is, we write this as all of the area to the left of 2, and then we subtract off the area to the left of -0.5. Both of these areas can be looked up in computer programs. Once we look at these areas with software, or on a table, we find that the first one is 97.7% and the second one is 30.9%. And so, the area we're interested in is simply the difference, which is 66.8%. By now, you've probably realized that the empirical rule is simply a special case of normal approximation. Remember, the empirical rule says that there's 95% of the data between the standardized values of -2 and 2. That leaves us 2.5% to the left of -2. So, the total area to the left of 2 is 2.5% + 95%, and that gives us 97.5%. So, this rule of thumb is very close to the 97.7% that we got on the previous slide using software.