Now, the main use of regression is to predict y from x. And we can simply do that by plugging in x into the equation of our regression line which gives us the predicted value y hat. Now, from the formulas on the previous slide, you can see that if we predicted x equal the average of all the x's, then this prediction will simply produce the average of the y's. But the formula for the slope means, that if we take x to be one standard deviation above the average, then the predicted y value is only r times one standard deviation above the average of the y's. Now r is typically smaller than 1 and larger than -1. And so this means the prediction is towards the mean, in a sense that the predicted value y hat is fewer stardard deviations away from its mean, then x is from the mean of the x's. Let's look at the scatter plot that shows scores on midterms and final exams for a number of students. The midterm scores are on the horizontal axis, and the final exam scores on the vertical axis. You see that the regression line clearly shows regression towards the mean. For example, if you look at students who did very well on the midterm, it would be roughly those very much on the right hand side. You see that their final exam scores which are given on the vertical axis are somewhat below the top scores on the final exam. So, regression towards the mean actually makes sense. We predict that the top scores on the midterm will score somewhat below the top on the final exam. Likewise, if you look at the worst scores on the midterm, it would be roughly those, but those students did actually not score the worst on the final because the worst scores on the finals are below there. Again, we would predict correctly that the final exam scores should not be as far away from the average as the midterm scores were. This is called regression to the mean, or the regression effect. One way to remember that, is to look at a test-retest situation just as the example of where we previously looked at the midterm and final exam scores of students. In such a test-retest situation, the top group on the test would drop down somewhat on the retest, and the bottom group moves up. Why would that be? Here's a very heuristic explanation. To score among the very top on the midterm requires two things. First of all, the student has to be prepared very well, and there's probably also some luck involved. For example, the students may be very well prepared for the questions that happen to be on the midterm. Another element of luck might be that the student had a very good sleep the night before. Now when we go to the retest situation like the final exam, then some of the students may not have that luck anymore in their favor. And that's the reason why we expect this group to fall back a little bit. The same thing applies to the bottom group. The worst score is probably due to some degree to some bad luck and on the retest situation, there's hope that this bad luck is not there anymore. It's important to realize that this is simply an effect of the scatter around the line. Sometimes, people look at that effect and conclude that there must be something else going on. For example, the conclusion might be that the top scorers on the midterm slackened off and did worse on the final. Such an erroneous conclusion is called the regression fallacy.