Let's look at the earlier example. Suppose we poll 1,000 likely voters and find that 58% approve of the way
the president handles his job. So the formula for the standard error of the percentage
is sigma over square root n. And then we can convert into a percentage
simply by multiplying with 100%. And sigma is given by square root p(1-p) where p is the proportion
of all voters who approve. That's simply using a formula
which we looked at earlier. So, in this case, p is unknown to us, because we don't know the proportion
of all 140 million voters who approve. The bootstrap principle then
says to replace sigma by s, which is the standard deviation
of the 0/1 labels in our sample. And if we compute that standard deviation, we get square root 0.58(1- 0.58),
which is 0.49. And by the way, that's exactly the same answer we would
have gotten if we had plugged in. Instead of p here,
our estimate from the sample. So now we can write down our
95% confidence interval for p. The formula says we take the estimate
in our sample, which is 58%. Then we do plus minus z, and since we have a 95% confidence level,
we take z = 2. And then we have the standard error
which has the formula given above, so we get 0.49 divided by
square root sample size. And we can write this as an interval,
54.9% to 61.1%. Now let's look at our second example, where we estimate the speed of light
using the average of 30 measurements. So now, in this case,
what is the population or the probability histogram
that we are sampling from? We have to think through
the question first before we can apply
the bootstrap principle. Now, the reason why we get 30 different
measurements in the first place is because each measurement
is off by a chance error. So we have a model where each
measurement = the true speed of light + a measurement error. And we can think of the measurement
error as a random error. This chance error follows some kind of
probability histogram that we don't know. But we can use the bootstrap principle to
estimate the standard deviation of this probability histogram. Using the standard
deviation of the sample. By the way, the reason why this
works is that we are looking at the standard deviation, s,
of the measurements on the left hand side. And we want to use that standard
deviation as an estimate. Of the standard deviation sigma of the
measurement errors on the right hand side. So notice there is an added term,
which is the speed of light. But remember that adding a fixed
number to the measurements will not change the standard deviation. That's the reason why the bootstrap
principle works in this case. Later on, we will see how we
can use the bootstrap principle in even more complicated
situations than these.