I'm sure you've seen a bar graph and a histogram before. The next one may be new. It's called the boxplot, sometimes it's also called the box-and-whisker plot. The idea is that it visualizes five key numbers of the data. In this example, we look at fuel consumption of 32 cars, it's given in miles per gallon. The lower whisker which is the number here, shows the smallest number in the data. So, we see it's roughly 10 miles per gallon. The upper whisker here shows the largest number in the data which may be around 35 miles per gallon. And then there are three more numbers; we have the median, that's the number where half of the data are smaller and half are larger, so this might be around 19 miles per gallon, and there's the first quartile, which is this number here, around 15 miles per gallon. That's the number where a quarter of the data are smaller and three-quarters are larger. And finally, there's the third quartile, which is this number which gives you the point where three quarters of the data are smaller and one quarter are larger. The boxplot has less information than a histogram because it only shows five numbers of the data. But in turn it takes up less space, and so one can use it to compare several datasets by putting them into the same graphic. The display below shows the same data that we had on the previous slide. But now the data are divided up into three groups depending on the number of cylinders of each car. Each group gets its own box plot. By putting all three boxplots in one graphic, we see that the miles per gallon are larger for cars that have fewer cylinders. A graphic like this is difficult to make with histograms. Also, keep in mind that the histogram depends on the choice of the intervals that we select for the blocks. We don't have to deal with that when we use boxplots. This graphic is an example of the principle of small multiples. We will talk about this later. Finally, let's look at data that consists of not just one number but two, that is the data come as pairs. Those data are typically plotted in a coordinate system which is called a scatter plot. The example here shows the years of education and the salaries for a number of people. For example, this person may have about 12 years of education and an income of roughly $15,000. The scatter plot is very useful to visualize the relationship between two variables. For example we see that as education increases, income tends to go up. And moreover, we see that for many years of education, there seems to be a steep increase in income.