Probabilities are always between 0 and 1. The key for computing probabilities is to apply a few rules repeatedly. We already saw that the probability that a newborn is a girl is 48.8% so, what's the probability that a newborn is a boy? Well, that's the opposite so, it's 1 - 48.8%, which is 51.2%. And that's already our first rule. To write down rules, it's convenient to abbreviate events such as, newborn is a girl with capital letters, such as A. So our first rule which is called the complement rule, says that the probability that A does not occur is 1 minus the probability of A. This is called the complement rule because A does not occur is also called the complement of A. Now let's look at a different chance experiment, namely, rolling a die. A die has six sides and each of them is equally likely. So each side has probability 1/6 of coming up. This is our second rule. It's called the rule for equally likely outcomes. If there are N possible outcomes and they are equally likely, then the probability of an event A is the number of outcomes in A, divided by N. In the next two rules, we learn how to compute probabilities of multiple events as those of the individual events. For the first one, we need a small definition. A and B are called mutually exclusive if they cannot occur at the same time. Let's look at an example. Suppose we roll a die twice. Let's call the event A, to be the event where we see one spot on the first roll, B is the event where we see six spots on the first roll, and C is the event where we see one spot on the second roll. Then A and B are mutually exclusive, because if we have one spot on the first roll, then we cannot have six spots on the first roll. But A and C are not mutually exclusive because if you have one spot on the first roll, then we can also have one spot on the second roll. So here is our third rule, it's called the addition rule. If the events A and B are mutually exclusive, then the probability of A or B happening is simply the sum of the probabilities of A and B. Our last rule involves two events being independent. That means that knowing that one occurs does not change the probability that the other occurs. In the above example, B and C are independent, because B concerns the first roll, and C concerns the second roll, and the outcome of the second roll doesn't depend on the outcome of the first roll. But the events A and B are not independent, because if you have a 1 on the first roll, then we cannot have a 6 on the first roll. So the outcome of A will affect the outcome of B. So the last rule is the multiplication rule. It says if A and B are independent, then the probability of A and B happening is simply the product of the probability of A and B. So if we look at these two rules, we see that the addition rule has an or, and the multiplication rule has an and. And then in the addition rule, we add, whereas in the multiplication rule, we multiply. And likewise, the assumptions are different. For the addition rule, the events have to be mutually exclusive, and in the multiplication rule, they have to be independent. This is what one has to keep in mind to keep these two rules apart.