To explain conditional probability, let's look at spam e-mail. Spam e-mail contains certain words with a higher frequency than non-spam e-mail, which is also called ham e-mail. For example, the word money, and that's because one reason people send spam e-mail is to get your money. The probability that the word money appears in spam e-mail is 8%. And the way we write this is probability of money appears in e-mail. Given, which is denoted by a vertical line. Given that the e-mail is spam, is 8%. And the probability that money appears in an e-mail, given that the e-mail is ham is only 1%. The conditional probability of B given A is now defined as the probability of B given A is the probability of A and B divided by the probability of A. And rearranging that already gives us what's called the general multiplication rule. The probability of A and B is the probability of A times the probability of B given A. So, remember the multiplication rule we had earlier. In the special case, where the events A and B are independent, the probability of A and B is simply the probability of A times the probability of B. So, you see in the special case of independence, the conditional probability of B given A is the same as the probability of B, and that makes sense because independence means that the outcome of B does not depend on A. So, let's do some computations. It's known that the probability that any e-mail is spam is about 20%. Let's compute the probability that a randomly chosen e-mail has the word money in it. How would we do that? So, remember what we know so far. We know that the probability that money appears given the e-mail is spam is 8%, and the probability that money appears given that the e-mail is ham is only 1%. But, I want to know the probability of money and I only have the conditional probability of money given spam and ham. So, the key idea here is, to artificially introduce that event whether we have spam or ham. The way this is done is, we can write the event that money appears in the e-mail as two events. The event that money appears in the e-mail is spam or the event that money appears in the e-mail is ham. And now you see these two events are mutually exclusive because if the e-mail is spam, it cannot be ham. And since there's an or in between these two, we can use the addition rule. The probability that money appears in the e-mail is the probability that money appears in the e-mail is spam and the probability that money appears in the e-mail is ham. And now, I simply plug in the definition of conditional probability. The first term is the probability that the word money appears given the e-mail is spam times the probability that the e-mail is spam, and likewise, for the second term. And all of these things, I know and can simply plug in, and I get 2.4%.