For each observation, we have an observed y-value and we have a predicted y-value. The difference between these two y-values is called the residual. Residuals are useful for checking whether the regression we're doing is appropriate. The main tool here is what's called the residual plot. It is simply a scatter plot of the residuals against the x-values. Here's an example. We have midterm scores on the horizontal axis, and final scores on the vertical axis, and we also see the regression line through the scatter. Based on the regression line, we can computer the residuals, and those are shown on the right plot. What we are seeing in the residual plot is a scatter that doesn't show any structure. That's just the way we would like to have it. Here is another example where the residual plot shows that regression might not be appropriate. The left plot shows income versus education. And looking at the scatter, you can already tell that there's a lot of curvature in there. When we fit the regression and look at the residual plot, we see a pattern that shows a big curve. That's an indication that a scatter is not linear and the regression shouldn't be applied. However, not all is lost. It may still be possible to use regression for those data after we transform those data. For example, we could regress the square root of income or the logarithm of income on education. Sometimes, that results in a linear pattern, and we can use regression on those transformed data, and then we would simply transform back the results. Here's another deviation of the linear scatter that a residual plot might catch. The scatter on the left-hand side is linear. So it roughly follows a line, but we see that it looks like a fan shape. It opens up. And that also shows up in the residual plot. Such a scatter is called heteroscedastic. It simply means that the variability changes with the x-values. There's a little bit variability on the left side, but there's a lot of variability on the right-hand side. Those types of problems can oftentimes be fixed by transforming the y-values. However, it may turn out that that transformation on the y-values changes that scatter from linear to nonlinear. So we may have to do another transformation on the x-values to fix that. Here's an example from the 2000 presidential election in the United States. The scatter on the left-hand side shows the election results for each county in Florida, with the exception of Palm Beach County. In the 2000 presidential election, there was a third party candidate, Pat Buchanan, who got a sizable proportion of the votes. The scatter shows the votes that Bush got versus those that Buchanan got. Just looking at the scatter, It seems that it's roughly linear, but when we look at the residual plot on the right hand side, we see that it's heteroscedastic. However, if we take logs of both variables, we get a result that looks quite satisfactory. In particular, notice when looking at a residual plot, we get a horizontal band that doesn't show any structure.