The amount of information and data that are becoming available
to us is growing exponentially. As the amount of available data grows,
so is our need to understand it. Statistics is the science of learning
from data. This course will help you to develop the skills you need to analyze
data and to communicate your findings. There won't be many
formulas in the course. Rather, we will develop the key
ideas of statistical thinking that are essential for learning from data. When you take this course, it is helpful
if you have access to a spreadsheet, a software package, or website that
provides basic statistical functions, such as areas under the normal curve. But proficiency in
a programming language is not necessary to master the contents and
to complete the course. We will discuss the main tools for
descriptive statistics which are essential for exploring data, with an emphasis
on visualizing information. We will explain the important ideas about
sampling and conducting experiments. Then we will look over some
important rules of probability and discuss normal approximation and
the central limit theorem. We will show you the important concepts
and pitfalls of regression and how to do inference with confidence
intervals and tests of hypotheses. You will learn the key ideas about
computer-intensive inference with the Monte Carlo method and
the Bootstrap. We will show you how to
analyze categorical data and discuss one-way analysis of variance. Finally, we will look at reproducibility,
data snooping and the multiple testing fallacy and
how to account for multiple comparisons. These issues have become particularly
important in the era of big data. Broadly, there are three main reasons
why statistical literacy is essential in data science. First, it provides the skills to assess
whether the data are sufficient to answer the questions at hand. Second, it establishes a rigorous
framework for quantifying uncertainty. And finally, it provides techniques for effectively communicating
the findings of your analyses. This course equips you with important
tools in all of these areas. It is the statistical foundation on which
the recent exciting advances in machine learning are built. I hope you will enjoy the course.